doc/jcli/transaction.md, before:

# transaction

Tooling for offline transaction creation and signing.

```
jcli transaction
```

Those familiar with [`cardano-cli`](http://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-cli)
transaction builder will see resemblance in `jcli transaction`.

There is a couple of commands that can be used to:

1. prepare a transaction:
    - `new` create a new empty transaction;
    - `add-input`
    - `add-account`
    - `add-output`
2. `finalize` the transaction for signing:
3. create witnesses and add the witnesses:
    - `make-witness`
    - `add-witness`
4. `seal` the transaction, ready to send to the blockchain

There are also functions to help decode and display the
content information of a transaction:

* `info`
* `id` to get the **Transaction ID** of the transaction
* `to-message` to get the hexadecimal encoded message, ready to send with `cli rest message`


# Examples

Let's say we have the following utxo

| Field                     | Value        |
| ------------------------- |:------------:|
| UTXO's transaction ID     | 55762218e5737603e6d27d36c8aacf8fcd16406e820361a8ac65c7dc663f6d1c| 
| UTXO's output index       | 0     | 
| associated address        |  ca1q09u0nxmnfg7af8ycuygx57p5xgzmnmgtaeer9xun7hly6mlgt3pjyknplu    | 
| associated value          | 100             |

And we want to transfer 50 lovelaces to the following address

ca1qvnr5pvt9e5p009strshxndrsx5etcentslp2rwj6csm8sfk24a2wlqtdj6

## Create a staging area

```sh
jcli transaction new > tx
```

## Add input

For the input, we need to reference the uxto with the **UTXO's transaction ID** and **UTXO'S output index** fields and we need to specify how much coins are there with the **associated value** field.

### Example

```sh
jcli transaction add-input  55762218e5737603e6d27d36c8aacf8fcd16406e820361a8ac65c7dc663f6d1c 0 100 --staging tx
```

## Add output

For the output, we need the address we want to transfer to, and the amount.

```sh
jcli transaction add-output  ca1qvnr5pvt9e5p009strshxndrsx5etcentslp2rwj6csm8sfk24a2wlqtdj650 --staging tx
```

## Add fee and change address

We want to get the change in the same address that we are sending from (the *associated address* of the utxo). We also specify how to compute the fees.
You can leave out the `--fee-constant 5 --fee-coefficient 2` part if those are both 0.

```sh
jcli transaction finalize  ca1q09u0nxmnfg7af8ycuygx57p5xgzmnmgtaeer9xun7hly6mlgt3pjyknplu --fee-constant 5 --fee-coefficient 2 --staging tx
```

Now, if you run

```sh
jcli transaction info --fee-constant 5 --fee-coefficient 2 --staging tx
```

You should see something like this

```plaintext
Transaction `0df39a87d3f18a188b40ba8c203f85f37af665df229fb4821e477f6998864273' (finalizing)
  Input:   100
  Output:  89
  Fees:    11
  Balance: 0
 - 55762218e5737603e6d27d36c8aacf8fcd16406e820361a8ac65c7dc663f6d1c:0 100
 + ca1qvnr5pvt9e5p009strshxndrsx5etcentslp2rwj6csm8sfk24a2wlqtdj650 50
 + ca1q09u0nxmnfg7af8ycuygx57p5xgzmnmgtaeer9xun7hly6mlgt3pjyknplu 39
```

## Sign the transaction

### Make witness

For signing the transaction, you need the private key associated with the input address (the one that's in the utxos) and the hash of the genesis block of the network you are connected to.

The genesis' hash is needed for ensuring that the transaction cannot be re-used in another blockchain and for security concerns on offline transaction signing, as we are signing the transaction for the specific blockchain started by this block0 hash.

The following command takes the private key in the *key.prv* file and creates a witness in a file named *witness* in the current directory. 

```sh
jcli transaction make-witness --genesis-block-hash abcdef987654321... --type utxo txid --staging tx witness key.prv
```

### Add witness

```sh
jcli transaction add-witness witness --staging tx
```

## Send the transaction

```sh
jcli transaction seal --staging tx
```

```sh
jcli transaction to-message --staging tx > txmsg
```

Send it using the rest api

```sh
jcli rest v0 message post -f txmsg --host http://127.0.0.1:8443/api
```

## Checking if the transaction was accepted

You can check if the transaction was accepted by checking the node logs, for example, if the transaction is accepted 

`jcli rest v0 message logs -h http://127.0.0.1:8443/api`

```plaintext
---
- fragment_id: d6ef0b2148a51ed64531efc17978a527fd2d2584da1e344a35ad12bf5460a7e2
  last_updated_at: "2019-06-11T15:38:17.070162114Z"
  received_at: "2019-06-11T15:37:09.469101162Z"
  received_from: Rest
  status:
    InABlock: "4.707"
```

Where the InABlock status means that the transaction was accepted in the block with date "4.707".

The status here could also be: 

Pending: if the transaction is received and is pending being added in the blockchain (or rejected).

or

Rejected: with an attached message of the reason the transaction was rejected.

Commit message:

Add example for account input Referring to #470 point 2

doc/jcli/transaction.md, after:

# transaction

Tooling for offline transaction creation and signing.

```
jcli transaction
```

Those familiar with [`cardano-cli`](http://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-cli)
transaction builder will see resemblance in `jcli transaction`.

There is a couple of commands that can be used to:

1. prepare a transaction:
    - `new` create a new empty transaction;
    - `add-input`
    - `add-account`
    - `add-output`
2. `finalize` the transaction for signing:
3. create witnesses and add the witnesses:
    - `make-witness`
    - `add-witness`
4. `seal` the transaction, ready to send to the blockchain

There are also functions to help decode and display the
content information of a transaction:

* `info`
* `id` to get the **Transaction ID** of the transaction
* `to-message` to get the hexadecimal encoded message, ready to send with `cli rest message`


# Examples

The following example focuses on using an utxo as input, the few differences when transfering from an account will be pointed out when necessary.

Let's use the following utxo as input and transfer 50 lovelaces to the destination address

## Input utxo

| Field                     | Value        |
| ------------------------- |:------------:|
| UTXO's transaction ID     | 55762218e5737603e6d27d36c8aacf8fcd16406e820361a8ac65c7dc663f6d1c| 
| UTXO's output index       | 0     | 
| associated address        |  ca1q09u0nxmnfg7af8ycuygx57p5xgzmnmgtaeer9xun7hly6mlgt3pjyknplu    | 
| associated value          | 100             |

## Destination address

**addressca1qvnr5pvt9e5p009strshxndrsx5etcentslp2rwj6csm8sfk24a2wlqtdj6**

## Create a staging area

```sh
jcli transaction new > tx
```

## Add input

For the input, we need to reference the uxto with the **UTXO's transaction ID** and **UTXO'S output index** fields and we need to specify how much coins are there with the **associated value** field.

### Example

```sh
jcli transaction add-input  55762218e5737603e6d27d36c8aacf8fcd16406e820361a8ac65c7dc663f6d1c 0 100 --staging tx
```

### Account input

If the input is an account, the command is slightly different

```sh
jcli transaction add-account account_address account_funds --staging tx
```

## Add output

For the output, we need the address we want to transfer to, and the amount.

```sh
jcli transaction add-output  ca1qvnr5pvt9e5p009strshxndrsx5etcentslp2rwj6csm8sfk24a2wlqtdj650 --staging tx
```

## Add fee and change address

We want to get the change in the same address that we are sending from (the *associated address* of the utxo). We also specify how to compute the fees.
You can leave out the `--fee-constant 5 --fee-coefficient 2` part if those are both 0.

```sh
jcli transaction finalize  ca1q09u0nxmnfg7af8ycuygx57p5xgzmnmgtaeer9xun7hly6mlgt3pjyknplu --fee-constant 5 --fee-coefficient 2 --staging tx
```

Now, if you run

```sh
jcli transaction info --fee-constant 5 --fee-coefficient 2 --staging tx
```

You should see something like this

```plaintext
Transaction `0df39a87d3f18a188b40ba8c203f85f37af665df229fb4821e477f6998864273' (finalizing)
  Input:   100
  Output:  89
  Fees:    11
  Balance: 0
 - 55762218e5737603e6d27d36c8aacf8fcd16406e820361a8ac65c7dc663f6d1c:0 100
 + ca1qvnr5pvt9e5p009strshxndrsx5etcentslp2rwj6csm8sfk24a2wlqtdj650 50
 + ca1q09u0nxmnfg7af8ycuygx57p5xgzmnmgtaeer9xun7hly6mlgt3pjyknplu 39
```

## Sign the transaction

### Make witness

For signing the transaction, you need the private key associated with the input address (the one that's in the utxos) and the hash of the genesis block of the network you are connected to.

The genesis' hash is needed for ensuring that the transaction cannot be re-used in another blockchain and for security concerns on offline transaction signing, as we are signing the transaction for the specific blockchain started by this block0 hash.

The following command takes the private key in the *key.prv* file and creates a witness in a file named *witness* in the current directory. 

```sh
jcli transaction make-witness --genesis-block-hash abcdef987654321... --type utxo txid witness key.prv
```

---
#### Account input

When using an account as input, the command takes `account` as the type and an additional parameter: `--account-spending-counter`, that should be increased every time the account is used as input.

e.g.

```sh
jcli transaction make-witness --genesis-block-hash abcdef987654321... --type account --account-spending-counter 0 witness key.prv
```

### Add witness

```sh
jcli transaction add-witness witness --staging tx
```

## Send the transaction

```sh
jcli transaction seal --staging tx
```

```sh
jcli transaction to-message --staging tx > txmsg
```

Send it using the rest api

```sh
jcli rest v0 message post -f txmsg --host http://127.0.0.1:8443/api
```

## Checking if the transaction was accepted

You can check if the transaction was accepted by checking the node logs, for example, if the transaction is accepted 

`jcli rest v0 message logs -h http://127.0.0.1:8443/api`

```plaintext
---
- fragment_id: d6ef0b2148a51ed64531efc17978a527fd2d2584da1e344a35ad12bf5460a7e2
  last_updated_at: "2019-06-11T15:38:17.070162114Z"
  received_at: "2019-06-11T15:37:09.469101162Z"
  received_from: Rest
  status:
    InABlock: "4.707"
```

Where the InABlock status means that the transaction was accepted in the block with date "4.707".

The status here could also be: 

Pending: if the transaction is received and is pending being added in the blockchain (or rejected).

or

Rejected: with an attached message of the reason the transaction was rejected.
