doc/SUMMARY.md, before:

# Summary

[Introduction](./introduction.md)

- [Quickstart](./quickstart/introduction.md)
    - [Command lines tools](./quickstart/01_command_line.md)
    - [Starting a passive node](./quickstart/02_passive_node.md)
    - [REST API](./quickstart/03_rest_api.md)

- [General Concepts](./concepts/introduction.md)
    - [Blockchain concepts](./concepts/blockchain.md)
    - [Node organisation](./concepts/node.md)
- [staking and stake pool](./stake_pool/introduction.md)
    - [registering your stake](./stake_pool/registering_stake.md)
    - [delegating your stake](./stake_pool/delegating_stake.md)
    - [registering stake pool](./stake_pool/registering_stake_pool.md)

- [jcli](./jcli/introduction.md)
    - [Cryptographic keys](./jcli/key.md)
    - [Address](./jcli/address.md)
    - [Transaction](./jcli/transaction.md)
    - [Certificate](./jcli/certificate.md)
    - [Genesis](./jcli/genesis.md)
    - [REST](./jcli/rest.md)

- [Advanced](./advanced/introduction.md)
    - [Genesis block](./advanced/01_the_genesis_block.md)
    - [Starting a bft blockchain](./advanced/02_starting_bft_blockchain.md)
    - [Starting a genesis blockchain](./advanced/03_starting_genesis_praos_blockchain.md)

Commit message:

added end to end tutorials for the self node, with links to the videos

doc/SUMMARY.md, after:

# Summary

[Introduction](./introduction.md)

- [Quickstart](./quickstart/introduction.md)
    - [Command lines tools](./quickstart/01_command_line.md)
    - [Starting a passive node](./quickstart/02_passive_node.md)
    - [REST API](./quickstart/03_rest_api.md)

- [General Concepts](./concepts/introduction.md)
    - [Blockchain concepts](./concepts/blockchain.md)
    - [Node organisation](./concepts/node.md)

- [How To](./how_to/introduction.md)
    - [Install from source](./how_to/install_from_source.md)
    - [Start a self node](./how_to/start_self_node.md)
    - [Send from faucet to account](./how_to/send_money_from_faucet_to_account.md)
    - [Delegate from new account](./how_to/delegate_from_new_account.md)

- [staking and stake pool](./stake_pool/introduction.md)
    - [registering your stake](./stake_pool/registering_stake.md)
    - [delegating your stake](./stake_pool/delegating_stake.md)
    - [registering stake pool](./stake_pool/registering_stake_pool.md)

- [jcli](./jcli/introduction.md)
    - [Cryptographic keys](./jcli/key.md)
    - [Address](./jcli/address.md)
    - [Transaction](./jcli/transaction.md)
    - [Certificate](./jcli/certificate.md)
    - [Genesis](./jcli/genesis.md)
    - [REST](./jcli/rest.md)

- [Advanced](./advanced/introduction.md)
    - [Genesis block](./advanced/01_the_genesis_block.md)
    - [Starting a bft blockchain](./advanced/02_starting_bft_blockchain.md)
    - [Starting a genesis blockchain](./advanced/03_starting_genesis_praos_blockchain.md)
