doc/quickstart/02_passive_node.md, before:

The passive Node is the most common type of Node on the network. It
is a Node without cryptographic materials or any mean to create blocks.
This type of nodes are mostly used for wallets, explorers or relays.

In order to start the node, you first need to gather the blockchain
information you need to connect to.

1. the hash of the **genesis block** of the blockchain, this will be the source
   of truth of the blockchain. It is 64 hexadecimal characters.
2. the **trusted peers** identifiers and access points.

These information are essentials to start your node in a secure way.

The **genesis block** is the first block of the blockchain. It contains the
static parameters of the blockchain as well as the initial funds. Your node
will utilise the **Hash** to retrieve it from the other peers. It will also
allows the Node to verify the integrity of the downloaded **genesis block**.

The **trusted peers** are the nodes in the public network that your Node will
trust in order to initialise the Peer To Peer network.

# The node configuration

Your node configuration file may look like the following:

**Note**

This config shouldn't work as it is, the ip address and port for the trusted peer should be those of an already running node. 
Also, the public_address ('u.x.v.t') should be a valid address (you can use an internal one, eg: 127.0.0.1).
Furthermore, you need to have permission to write in the path specified by the storage config.

```yaml
storage: "/mnt/cardano/storage"

rest:
  listen: "127.0.0.1:8443"
  prefix: "api"

peer_2_peer:
  trusted_peers:
    - id: 1
      address: "/ip4/104.24.28.11/tcp/8299"
  public_address: "/ip4/u.v.x.y/tcp/8299"
  topics_of_interests:
    messages: low
    blocks: normal
```

Fields description:

- *storage*: (optional) path to the storage. If omitted, the
  blockchain is stored in memory only.
- *logger*: (optional) logger configuration,
    - *verbosity*: 0 - warning, 1 - info, 2 -debug, 3 and above - trace
    - *format*: log output format - plain or json.
     - *output*: log output - stderr, syslog (unix only) or journald (linux with systemd only, must be enabled during compilation)
- *rest*: (optional) configuration of the rest endpoint.
    - *listen*: listen address
    - *pkcs12*: certificate file (optional)
    - *prefix*: (optional) api prefix
- *peer_2_peer*: the P2P network settings
    - *trusted_peers*: (optional) the list of nodes to connect to in order to
      bootstrap the p2p topology (and bootstrap our local blockchain);
    - *public_id*: (optional) the public identifier send to the other nodes in the
      p2p network. If not set it will be randomly generated.
    - *public_address*: the address to listen from and accept connection
      from. This is the public address that will be distributed to other peers
      of the network that may find interest into participating to the blockchain
      dissemination with the node;
    - *topics_of_interests*: the different topics we are interested to hear about:
      - *messages*: notify other peers this node is interested about Transactions
        typical setting for a non mining node: `"low"`. For a stakepool: `"high"`;
      - *blocks*: notify other peers this node is interested about new Blocs.
        typical settings for a non mining node: `"normal"`. For a stakepool: `"high"`;

# Starting the node

```
jormungandr --config config.yaml --genesis-block-hash 'abcdef987654321....'
```

The 'abcdef987654321....' part refers to the hash of the genesis, that should be given to you from one of the peers in the network you are connecting to. 

In case you have the genesis file (for example, because you are creating the network) you can get this hash with jcli.

```sh
cat block-0 | jcli genesis hash
```

or, in case you only have the yaml file

```sh
cat genesis.yaml | jcli genesis encode | jcli genesis hash
```

Commit message:

Support GELF logging output.
 Closes #447.

doc/quickstart/02_passive_node.md, after:

The passive Node is the most common type of Node on the network. It
is a Node without cryptographic materials or any mean to create blocks.
This type of nodes are mostly used for wallets, explorers or relays.

In order to start the node, you first need to gather the blockchain
information you need to connect to.

1. the hash of the **genesis block** of the blockchain, this will be the source
   of truth of the blockchain. It is 64 hexadecimal characters.
2. the **trusted peers** identifiers and access points.

These information are essentials to start your node in a secure way.

The **genesis block** is the first block of the blockchain. It contains the
static parameters of the blockchain as well as the initial funds. Your node
will utilise the **Hash** to retrieve it from the other peers. It will also
allows the Node to verify the integrity of the downloaded **genesis block**.

The **trusted peers** are the nodes in the public network that your Node will
trust in order to initialise the Peer To Peer network.

# The node configuration

Your node configuration file may look like the following:

**Note**

This config shouldn't work as it is, the ip address and port for the trusted peer should be those of an already running node. 
Also, the public_address ('u.x.v.t') should be a valid address (you can use an internal one, eg: 127.0.0.1).
Furthermore, you need to have permission to write in the path specified by the storage config.

```yaml
storage: "/mnt/cardano/storage"

rest:
  listen: "127.0.0.1:8443"
  prefix: "api"

peer_2_peer:
  trusted_peers:
    - id: 1
      address: "/ip4/104.24.28.11/tcp/8299"
  public_address: "/ip4/u.v.x.y/tcp/8299"
  topics_of_interests:
    messages: low
    blocks: normal
```

Fields description:

- *storage*: (optional) path to the storage. If omitted, the
  blockchain is stored in memory only.
- *logger*: (optional) logger configuration,
    - *verbosity*: 0 - warning, 1 - info, 2 -debug, 3 and above - trace
    - *format*: log output format - plain or json.
    - *output*: log output - stderr, gelf (graylog) syslog (unix only) or journald (linux with systemd only, must be enabled during compilation)
    - *backend*: for gelf output: hostname:port of a graylog server.
    - *logs_id*: for gelf output: unique id that identify the node as source of the logs.
- *rest*: (optional) configuration of the rest endpoint.
    - *listen*: listen address
    - *pkcs12*: certificate file (optional)
    - *prefix*: (optional) api prefix
- *peer_2_peer*: the P2P network settings
    - *trusted_peers*: (optional) the list of nodes to connect to in order to
      bootstrap the p2p topology (and bootstrap our local blockchain);
    - *public_id*: (optional) the public identifier send to the other nodes in the
      p2p network. If not set it will be randomly generated.
    - *public_address*: the address to listen from and accept connection
      from. This is the public address that will be distributed to other peers
      of the network that may find interest into participating to the blockchain
      dissemination with the node;
    - *topics_of_interests*: the different topics we are interested to hear about:
      - *messages*: notify other peers this node is interested about Transactions
        typical setting for a non mining node: `"low"`. For a stakepool: `"high"`;
      - *blocks*: notify other peers this node is interested about new Blocs.
        typical settings for a non mining node: `"normal"`. For a stakepool: `"high"`;

# Starting the node

```
jormungandr --config config.yaml --genesis-block-hash 'abcdef987654321....'
```

The 'abcdef987654321....' part refers to the hash of the genesis, that should be given to you from one of the peers in the network you are connecting to. 

In case you have the genesis file (for example, because you are creating the network) you can get this hash with jcli.

```sh
cat block-0 | jcli genesis hash
```

or, in case you only have the yaml file

```sh
cat genesis.yaml | jcli genesis encode | jcli genesis hash
```
