doc/specs/network.md, before:

# Network

> Bringing Ouroboros to the people

---

# Introduction

This document highlights the requirements we wish to apply to a decentralised
network applied to cardano blockchain. Then we will discuss the possible
solutions we can provide in a timely manner and the tradeoff we will need to
make.

# Design decisions guidelines

This is a main of general guidelines for the design decision in this document,
and to judge the merit of solutions:

* **Efficiency**: the communication between the nodes needs to be succinct. to
  the point, avoiding unnecessary redundancies. The protocol needs to stabilise
  quickly to a well distributed network, guaranteeing a fast propagation of the
  important events;
* **Security**: limit the ability for other nodes to trigger behavior that would
  prevent a peer from working (e.g. unbounded resources usage)
* **Simplicity**: we need to easily implement the protocol for any platforms or
  environment that will matter for our users.

# Node-to-Node communication

This section describes the communication between 2 different peers on the
network. It involves synchronous queries with the context of the local state
and remote state.

## General Functionality

This is a general high level list of what information will need to be exchanged:

* Bootstrap local state from nothing
* Update local state from an arbitrary point
* Answer Synchronous queries: RPC style
* Asynchronous messages for state propagation (transactions, blocks, ..)
* P2P messages (See P2P Communication)

## Design

### User Stories

* Alice wants to synchronise its local state from Bob from Alice's Tip:
  * Alice downloads Block Headers from Bob (starting from Alice's Tip);
    * Bob does not know this Tip:
      * Error: unknown block
      * Alice starts again with a previous Tip;
    * Bob does know this state:
      * Bob streams back the block headers
  * Alice downloads block
    * Since Alice knows the list of Block Headers and the number of blocks to
      download, Alice can download from multiple peers, requiring to get block
      stream from different Hash in this list of Block;
  * State: tip_hash, storage
  * Pseudocode (executed by Alice):
    ```rust
    sync():
      bob.get_headers(alice.tip)
    ```
* Alice wants to propagate a transaction to Bob
  * Alice send the transaction hash to Bob
  * Bob replies whether it want to hear more
  * Alice send the transaction to Bob if Bob agrees
* Alice wants to submit a Block to Bob
  * Alice sends the Header to Bob;
  * Bob replies whether it want to hear more
  * Alice sends the Block to Bob if Bob agrees
* Alice want to exchange peers with Bob

### High Level Messages

We model everything so that we don't need any network state machine. Everything
is stateless for

* `GetLatest: () -> (Header, ChainLength)`:
  * Return the latest block known by the peer (also known as at the tip of the
    blockchain).
  * **DD?** : Block vs hash: block is large but contain extra useful metadata
    (slotid, prevhash), whereas hash is small.
* `GetChainHashes: (Hash, Offset, Count) -> [Hash]`:
  * Fetch Count block hashes going backwards in the chain, starting at the
    Offset’ ancestor of Hash.
    Note that this function is pure since it does backward rather than forward
    iteration. Due to the offset, it allows random access into the chain.
  * Pseudo-code implementation:
    ```
    GetChainHashes(hash, offset, count):
      h = hash;
      // Note: the actual implementation won’t do a linear search, but will
      // use a storage index to seek to the specified offset
      for (i = 0; i < offset; i++)
        h = load_block(h).parent_hash
        if h == genesis: return
      for (i = 0; i < count; i++)
        blk = load_block(h)
        send_hash(h)
        h = blk.parent_hash
        if h == genesis: return
    ```
* `GetHeaders: ([Hash]) -> [Header]`:
  * Fetch the headers (metadata summaries) of the blocks identified by hashes.
* `GetBlocks: ([Hash]) -> [Block]`:
  * Like GetHeaders, but returns full blocks.
* `PullBlocksToTip: ([Hash]) -> Stream<Block>`:
  * Retrieve a stream of blocks descending from one of the given hashes, up to
    the remote's current tip.
  * This is an easy way to pull blockchain state from a single peer,
    for clients that don't have a need to fiddle with batched
    `GetChainHashes`/`GetBlocks` requests and traffic distribution among
    multiple peers.
* `AnnounceBlock: Hash`
  * Announce a new block to the peer by the block's hash.
  * Used for submission of a new locally minted block,
    and relay of block gossip on the network.
  * **TBD:** the payload could be a whole `Header` carrying more useful
    information about the block.
* `AnnounceTransactions: [Hash]`
  * Announce new transactions to the peer by their hashes as unique keys.
  * Used for submission of a new locally accepted transaction,
    and relay of transactions gossip on the network.
* `GetTransactions: [Hash] -> [Transaction]`
  * Fetch one or multiple transactions identified by the hashes.
* P2P Messages: see P2P messages section.

The protobuf files describing these commands are available in the [proto]
directory.

### Pseudocode chain sync algorithm

```rust
struct State {
  ChainState chain_state,
  HashMap<Hash, Block> blocks
}

struct ChainState {
  Hash tip,
  HashSet<Hash> ancestors,
  Utxos ...,
  ...
}

impl ChainState {
  Fn is_ancestor(hash) -> bool {
    self.ancestors.exists(hash)
  }
}

// Fetch ‘dest_tip’ from `server’ and make it our tip, if it’s better.
sync(state, server, dest_tip, dest_tip_length) {
  if is_ancestor(dest_tip, state.chain_state.tip) {
    return; // nothing to do
  }

  // find a common ancestor of `dest_tip` and our tip.
  // FIXME: do binary search to find exact most recent ancestor
  n = 0;
  loop {
	headers = server.get_headers(dest_tip, 2^n, 1);
     if headers == [] {
       ancestor = genesis;
       break;
     }
     ancestor = headers[0];
	if state.chain_state.has_ancestor(ancestor): { break }
	n++;
  }

  // fetch blocks from ancestor to dest_tip, in batches of 1000
  // blocks, forwards
  // FIXME: integer arithmetic is probably off a bit here, but you get the idea.
  nr_blocks_to_fetch = 2^n;
  batch_size = 1000;
  batches = nr_blocks_to_fetch / batch_size;
  new_chain_state = reconstruct_chain_state_at(ancestor);
  for (i = batches; i > 0; i--) {
     // validate the headers ahead of downloading blocks to validate
     // cryptographically invalid blocks. It is interesting to do that
     // ahead of time because of the small size of a BlockHeader
     new_headers = server.get_headers(dest_tip,(i-1) * batch_size, batch_size);
	if new_headers are invalid { stop; }
	new_blocks = server.get_blocks(dest_tip, (i-1) * batch_size, batch_size).reverse();
	for block in new_blocks {
  	  new_chain_state.validate_block(block)?;
    	  write block to disk;
	}
  }

  if new_chain_state.chain_quality() > state.chain_state.chain_quality() {
	state.new_chain_state = state.chain_state
  }
}
```

### Choice of wire Technology

We don't rely on any specific wire protocol, and only require that the wire
protocol allow the transfer of the high level messages in a bidirectional way.

We chose to use GRPC/Protobuf as initial technology choice:

* **Efficiency**: Using Protobuf, **HTTP2**, binary protocol
* **Bidirectional**: through HTTP2, allowing stream of data. data push on a single established connection.
* **Potential Authentication**: Security / Stream atomicity towards malicious MITM
* **Simplicity**: Many languages supported (**code generation**, **wide support**)
* **Language/Architecture Independent**: works on everything
* _Protobuf file acts as documentation and are relatively easy to version_

Connections can be left open (specially for clients behind NAT), although we
can cycle connection with a simple RCU like system.

# Node-to-Client communication

Client are different from the node, in the sense that they may not be reachable
by other peers directly.

However we might consider non reachable clients to keep an open connections
to a node to received events. <font color="red">**TBD**</font>

* `ReceiveNext : () -> Event`

Another solution would be use use libp2p which also implements NAT Traversals
and already has solutions for this.

# Peer-to-Peer network

This section describes the construction of the network topology between nodes
participating in the protocol. It will describes the requirements necessary
to propagate the most efficiently the Communication Messages to the nodes of
the topology.

## Definitions

* **Communication Messages**: the message that are necessary to be sent through
  the network (node-to-node and node-to-client) as defined above;
* **Topology**: defines how the peers are linked to each other;
* **Node** or **Peer**: an instance running the protocol;
* **Link**: a connection between 2 peers in the topology;

## Functionalities

* A node can join the network at any moment;
* A node can leave the network at any moment;
* Node will discover new nodes to connect to via gossiping: nodes will exchange
  information regarding other nodes;
* Nodes will relay information to their linked nodes (neighbors);
* A node can challenge another node utilising the VRF in order to authentify
  the remote node is a specific stake owner/gatherer.

## Messages

* **RingGossip**: NodeProfileDetails * RING_GOSSIP_MAX_SIZE;
* **VicinityGossip**: NodeProfileDetails * VICINITY_GOSSIP_MAX_SIZE;
* **CyclonGossip**: NodeProfileDetails * CYCLON_GOSSIP_MAX_SIZE;

A node profile contains:

* Node’s id;
* Node’s IP Address;
* Node’s topics (set of what the node is known to be interested into);
* Node’s connected IDs

## Design

The requirements to join and leave the network at any moment, to discover and
change the links and to relay messages are all handled by [PolderCast].
Implementing [PolderCast] provides a good support to handle churn, fast relaying
and quick stabilisation of the network. The paper proposes 3 modules: Rings,
[Vicinity] and [Cyclon].

### Our addition: The 4th module

We propose to extend the number of modules with a 4th one, in order to increase
trust in the self organisation of the topology proposed by [PolderCast]. This
module will extend the accumulated views of the [PolderCast]'s modules (adding
more nodes to be selectable by the different modules for gossiping or relaying).

This 4th module will provide the following features:

* Connect to specific dedicated nodes that we know we can trust (we may use a
  VRF challenge to validate they are known stakeholder -- they participated to
  numerous block creations);
  * This will add a static, known inter-node communications. Allowing users to
    build a one to one trusted topology;
  * A direct application for this will be to build an inter-stake-pool
    communication layer;
* Static / configured list of trusted parties (whitelisting/blacklisting) TBD
* Metrics measurement related to stability TBD

### Part to look into:

Privacy. Possibly [Dandelion] tech

# Adversarial models considered

## Adversarial forks

We consider an adversary whose goal is to isolate from the network nodes with
stake. The impact of such successful attack would prevent block creation. Such
adversarial node would propose a block that may look like a fork of the
blockchain. Ouroboros Genesis allows fork up to an undetermined number of
blocks in the past. The targeted would then have to do a large amount of block
synchronisation and validation.

* If the fork pretend to be in an epoch known to us, we can perform some
  cryptographic verifications (check the VRF);
* If the fork pretends to be in an epoch long past, we may perform a small,
  controlled verification of up to N blocks from the forking point to verify
  the validity of these blocks;
* Once the validity verified, we can then verify the locality aliveness of the
  fork and apply the consensus algorithm to decide if such a fork is worth
  considering.
* However, suck attack can be repeated ad nauseam by any adversarial that
  happened to have been elected once by the protocol to create blocks. Once
  elected by its stake, the node may turn adversarial, creates as many invalid
  blocks, and propose them to the attacked node indefinitely. How do we keep
  track of the rejected blocks ? How do we keep track of the blacklisted
  stakeholder key or pool that are known to have propose too many invalid block
  or attempted this attack ?
  * Rejected block have a given block hash that is unlikely to collide with
    valid blocks, a node can keep a bloomfilter of hashes of known rejected
    block hash; or of known rejected VRF key;
  * The limitation of maintaining a bloom filter is that we may need to keep
    an ever growing bloom filter. However, it is reasonable to assume that the
    consensus protocol will organise itself in a collection of stakepools that
    have the resources (and the incentive) to keep suck bloom filter.

## Flooding attack

We consider an adversary whose goal is to disrupt or interrupt the p2p message
propagation. The event propagation mechanism of the pub/sub part of the p2p
network can be leverage to continuously send invalid or non desired
transactions to the network. For example, in a blockchain network protocol the
transactions are aimed to be sent quickly between nodes of the topology so they
may be quickly added to the ledger.

* While it is true that one can create a random amount of valid transactions,
  it is also possible perform a certain amount of validation and policies to
  prevent the transaction message forwarding from flooding the network:
  * The protocol already requires the nodes to validate the signatures and that
    the inputs are unspent;
  * We can add a policy not to accept transaction that may imply a double
    spend, i.e. in our pool of pending transaction, we can check that there is
    no duplicate inputs.
* The p2p gossiping protocols is an active action where a node decides to
  contact another node to exchange gossip with. It is not possible to flood the
  network with the gossiping messages as they do not require instant
  propagation of the gossips.

## Anonymity Against distributed adversaries

We consider an adversary whose goal is to deanonymize users by linking their
transactions to their IP addresses. This model is analysed in [Dandelion].
[PolderCast] already allows us to provide some reasonable guarantees against
this adversary model.

* Node do not share their links, they share a limited number of gossips based
  on what a node believe the recipient node might be interested in;
* While some links can be guessed (those of the Rings module for example), some
  are too arbitrary ([Vicinity] or [Cyclon]) to determined the original sender
  of a transaction;

# Man in the middle

We consider an adversary that could intercept the communication between two
nodes. Such adversary could:

* Escalate acquired knowledge to break the node privacy (e.g. user's public keys);
* Disrupt the communication between the two nodes;

Potentially we might use SSL/TLS with dynamic certificate generation. A node
would introduce itself to the network with its certificate. The certificate
is then associated to this node and would be propagated via gossiping to the
network.


# In relation to Ouroboros Genesis

Each participants in the protocol need:

* Key Evolving signature (KES) secret key
* Verifiable Random Function (VRF) secret key

Apart from the common block deserialization and hashing verification, each
block requires:

* 2 VRF verification
* 1 KES verification.

Considering the perfect network, it allow to calculate how many sequential hops, a block can hope to reach at a maximum bound.

[proto]: ../../../proto
[PolderCast]: https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01555561/document
[Vicinity]: https://www.cs.vu.nl/~spyros/papers/Thesis-Voulgaris.pdf
[Cyclon]: https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10922-005-4441-x
[Dandelion]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1701.04439

Commit message:

Refer to the protobuf definitions in rust-cardano
After jormungandr update is completed, those will be the source of truth
for the gRPC protocol.

doc/specs/network.md, after:

# Network

> Bringing Ouroboros to the people

---

# Introduction

This document highlights the requirements we wish to apply to a decentralised
network applied to cardano blockchain. Then we will discuss the possible
solutions we can provide in a timely manner and the tradeoff we will need to
make.

# Design decisions guidelines

This is a main of general guidelines for the design decision in this document,
and to judge the merit of solutions:

* **Efficiency**: the communication between the nodes needs to be succinct. to
  the point, avoiding unnecessary redundancies. The protocol needs to stabilise
  quickly to a well distributed network, guaranteeing a fast propagation of the
  important events;
* **Security**: limit the ability for other nodes to trigger behavior that would
  prevent a peer from working (e.g. unbounded resources usage)
* **Simplicity**: we need to easily implement the protocol for any platforms or
  environment that will matter for our users.

# Node-to-Node communication

This section describes the communication between 2 different peers on the
network. It involves synchronous queries with the context of the local state
and remote state.

## General Functionality

This is a general high level list of what information will need to be exchanged:

* Bootstrap local state from nothing
* Update local state from an arbitrary point
* Answer Synchronous queries: RPC style
* Asynchronous messages for state propagation (transactions, blocks, ..)
* P2P messages (See P2P Communication)

## Design

### User Stories

* Alice wants to synchronise its local state from Bob from Alice's Tip:
  * Alice downloads Block Headers from Bob (starting from Alice's Tip);
    * Bob does not know this Tip:
      * Error: unknown block
      * Alice starts again with a previous Tip;
    * Bob does know this state:
      * Bob streams back the block headers
  * Alice downloads block
    * Since Alice knows the list of Block Headers and the number of blocks to
      download, Alice can download from multiple peers, requiring to get block
      stream from different Hash in this list of Block;
  * State: tip_hash, storage
  * Pseudocode (executed by Alice):
    ```rust
    sync():
      bob.get_headers(alice.tip)
    ```
* Alice wants to propagate a transaction to Bob
  * Alice send the transaction hash to Bob
  * Bob replies whether it want to hear more
  * Alice send the transaction to Bob if Bob agrees
* Alice wants to submit a Block to Bob
  * Alice sends the Header to Bob;
  * Bob replies whether it want to hear more
  * Alice sends the Block to Bob if Bob agrees
* Alice want to exchange peers with Bob

### High Level Messages

We model everything so that we don't need any network state machine. Everything
is stateless for

* `GetLatest: () -> (Header, ChainLength)`:
  * Return the latest block known by the peer (also known as at the tip of the
    blockchain).
  * **DD?** : Block vs hash: block is large but contain extra useful metadata
    (slotid, prevhash), whereas hash is small.
* `GetChainHashes: (Hash, Offset, Count) -> [Hash]`:
  * Fetch Count block hashes going backwards in the chain, starting at the
    Offset’ ancestor of Hash.
    Note that this function is pure since it does backward rather than forward
    iteration. Due to the offset, it allows random access into the chain.
  * Pseudo-code implementation:
    ```
    GetChainHashes(hash, offset, count):
      h = hash;
      // Note: the actual implementation won’t do a linear search, but will
      // use a storage index to seek to the specified offset
      for (i = 0; i < offset; i++)
        h = load_block(h).parent_hash
        if h == genesis: return
      for (i = 0; i < count; i++)
        blk = load_block(h)
        send_hash(h)
        h = blk.parent_hash
        if h == genesis: return
    ```
* `GetHeaders: ([Hash]) -> [Header]`:
  * Fetch the headers (metadata summaries) of the blocks identified by hashes.
* `GetBlocks: ([Hash]) -> [Block]`:
  * Like GetHeaders, but returns full blocks.
* `PullBlocksToTip: ([Hash]) -> Stream<Block>`:
  * Retrieve a stream of blocks descending from one of the given hashes, up to
    the remote's current tip.
  * This is an easy way to pull blockchain state from a single peer,
    for clients that don't have a need to fiddle with batched
    `GetChainHashes`/`GetBlocks` requests and traffic distribution among
    multiple peers.
* `AnnounceBlock: Hash`
  * Announce a new block to the peer by the block's hash.
  * Used for submission of a new locally minted block,
    and relay of block gossip on the network.
  * **TBD:** the payload could be a whole `Header` carrying more useful
    information about the block.
* `AnnounceTransactions: [Hash]`
  * Announce new transactions to the peer by their hashes as unique keys.
  * Used for submission of a new locally accepted transaction,
    and relay of transactions gossip on the network.
* `GetTransactions: [Hash] -> [Transaction]`
  * Fetch one or multiple transactions identified by the hashes.
* P2P Messages: see P2P messages section.

The protobuf files describing these commands are available in the
`network-proto` directory of the [rust-cardano][rust-cardano-gh]
project repository. **TODO:** to be updated.

[rust-cardano-gh]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/rust-cardano/

### Pseudocode chain sync algorithm

```rust
struct State {
  ChainState chain_state,
  HashMap<Hash, Block> blocks
}

struct ChainState {
  Hash tip,
  HashSet<Hash> ancestors,
  Utxos ...,
  ...
}

impl ChainState {
  Fn is_ancestor(hash) -> bool {
    self.ancestors.exists(hash)
  }
}

// Fetch ‘dest_tip’ from `server’ and make it our tip, if it’s better.
sync(state, server, dest_tip, dest_tip_length) {
  if is_ancestor(dest_tip, state.chain_state.tip) {
    return; // nothing to do
  }

  // find a common ancestor of `dest_tip` and our tip.
  // FIXME: do binary search to find exact most recent ancestor
  n = 0;
  loop {
	headers = server.get_headers(dest_tip, 2^n, 1);
     if headers == [] {
       ancestor = genesis;
       break;
     }
     ancestor = headers[0];
	if state.chain_state.has_ancestor(ancestor): { break }
	n++;
  }

  // fetch blocks from ancestor to dest_tip, in batches of 1000
  // blocks, forwards
  // FIXME: integer arithmetic is probably off a bit here, but you get the idea.
  nr_blocks_to_fetch = 2^n;
  batch_size = 1000;
  batches = nr_blocks_to_fetch / batch_size;
  new_chain_state = reconstruct_chain_state_at(ancestor);
  for (i = batches; i > 0; i--) {
     // validate the headers ahead of downloading blocks to validate
     // cryptographically invalid blocks. It is interesting to do that
     // ahead of time because of the small size of a BlockHeader
     new_headers = server.get_headers(dest_tip,(i-1) * batch_size, batch_size);
	if new_headers are invalid { stop; }
	new_blocks = server.get_blocks(dest_tip, (i-1) * batch_size, batch_size).reverse();
	for block in new_blocks {
  	  new_chain_state.validate_block(block)?;
    	  write block to disk;
	}
  }

  if new_chain_state.chain_quality() > state.chain_state.chain_quality() {
	state.new_chain_state = state.chain_state
  }
}
```

### Choice of wire Technology

We don't rely on any specific wire protocol, and only require that the wire
protocol allow the transfer of the high level messages in a bidirectional way.

We chose to use GRPC/Protobuf as initial technology choice:

* **Efficiency**: Using Protobuf, **HTTP2**, binary protocol
* **Bidirectional**: through HTTP2, allowing stream of data. data push on a single established connection.
* **Potential Authentication**: Security / Stream atomicity towards malicious MITM
* **Simplicity**: Many languages supported (**code generation**, **wide support**)
* **Language/Architecture Independent**: works on everything
* _Protobuf file acts as documentation and are relatively easy to version_

Connections can be left open (specially for clients behind NAT), although we
can cycle connection with a simple RCU like system.

# Node-to-Client communication

Client are different from the node, in the sense that they may not be reachable
by other peers directly.

However we might consider non reachable clients to keep an open connections
to a node to received events. <font color="red">**TBD**</font>

* `ReceiveNext : () -> Event`

Another solution would be use use libp2p which also implements NAT Traversals
and already has solutions for this.

# Peer-to-Peer network

This section describes the construction of the network topology between nodes
participating in the protocol. It will describes the requirements necessary
to propagate the most efficiently the Communication Messages to the nodes of
the topology.

## Definitions

* **Communication Messages**: the message that are necessary to be sent through
  the network (node-to-node and node-to-client) as defined above;
* **Topology**: defines how the peers are linked to each other;
* **Node** or **Peer**: an instance running the protocol;
* **Link**: a connection between 2 peers in the topology;

## Functionalities

* A node can join the network at any moment;
* A node can leave the network at any moment;
* Node will discover new nodes to connect to via gossiping: nodes will exchange
  information regarding other nodes;
* Nodes will relay information to their linked nodes (neighbors);
* A node can challenge another node utilising the VRF in order to authentify
  the remote node is a specific stake owner/gatherer.

## Messages

* **RingGossip**: NodeProfileDetails * RING_GOSSIP_MAX_SIZE;
* **VicinityGossip**: NodeProfileDetails * VICINITY_GOSSIP_MAX_SIZE;
* **CyclonGossip**: NodeProfileDetails * CYCLON_GOSSIP_MAX_SIZE;

A node profile contains:

* Node’s id;
* Node’s IP Address;
* Node’s topics (set of what the node is known to be interested into);
* Node’s connected IDs

## Design

The requirements to join and leave the network at any moment, to discover and
change the links and to relay messages are all handled by [PolderCast].
Implementing [PolderCast] provides a good support to handle churn, fast relaying
and quick stabilisation of the network. The paper proposes 3 modules: Rings,
[Vicinity] and [Cyclon].

### Our addition: The 4th module

We propose to extend the number of modules with a 4th one, in order to increase
trust in the self organisation of the topology proposed by [PolderCast]. This
module will extend the accumulated views of the [PolderCast]'s modules (adding
more nodes to be selectable by the different modules for gossiping or relaying).

This 4th module will provide the following features:

* Connect to specific dedicated nodes that we know we can trust (we may use a
  VRF challenge to validate they are known stakeholder -- they participated to
  numerous block creations);
  * This will add a static, known inter-node communications. Allowing users to
    build a one to one trusted topology;
  * A direct application for this will be to build an inter-stake-pool
    communication layer;
* Static / configured list of trusted parties (whitelisting/blacklisting) TBD
* Metrics measurement related to stability TBD

### Part to look into:

Privacy. Possibly [Dandelion] tech

# Adversarial models considered

## Adversarial forks

We consider an adversary whose goal is to isolate from the network nodes with
stake. The impact of such successful attack would prevent block creation. Such
adversarial node would propose a block that may look like a fork of the
blockchain. Ouroboros Genesis allows fork up to an undetermined number of
blocks in the past. The targeted would then have to do a large amount of block
synchronisation and validation.

* If the fork pretend to be in an epoch known to us, we can perform some
  cryptographic verifications (check the VRF);
* If the fork pretends to be in an epoch long past, we may perform a small,
  controlled verification of up to N blocks from the forking point to verify
  the validity of these blocks;
* Once the validity verified, we can then verify the locality aliveness of the
  fork and apply the consensus algorithm to decide if such a fork is worth
  considering.
* However, suck attack can be repeated ad nauseam by any adversarial that
  happened to have been elected once by the protocol to create blocks. Once
  elected by its stake, the node may turn adversarial, creates as many invalid
  blocks, and propose them to the attacked node indefinitely. How do we keep
  track of the rejected blocks ? How do we keep track of the blacklisted
  stakeholder key or pool that are known to have propose too many invalid block
  or attempted this attack ?
  * Rejected block have a given block hash that is unlikely to collide with
    valid blocks, a node can keep a bloomfilter of hashes of known rejected
    block hash; or of known rejected VRF key;
  * The limitation of maintaining a bloom filter is that we may need to keep
    an ever growing bloom filter. However, it is reasonable to assume that the
    consensus protocol will organise itself in a collection of stakepools that
    have the resources (and the incentive) to keep suck bloom filter.

## Flooding attack

We consider an adversary whose goal is to disrupt or interrupt the p2p message
propagation. The event propagation mechanism of the pub/sub part of the p2p
network can be leverage to continuously send invalid or non desired
transactions to the network. For example, in a blockchain network protocol the
transactions are aimed to be sent quickly between nodes of the topology so they
may be quickly added to the ledger.

* While it is true that one can create a random amount of valid transactions,
  it is also possible perform a certain amount of validation and policies to
  prevent the transaction message forwarding from flooding the network:
  * The protocol already requires the nodes to validate the signatures and that
    the inputs are unspent;
  * We can add a policy not to accept transaction that may imply a double
    spend, i.e. in our pool of pending transaction, we can check that there is
    no duplicate inputs.
* The p2p gossiping protocols is an active action where a node decides to
  contact another node to exchange gossip with. It is not possible to flood the
  network with the gossiping messages as they do not require instant
  propagation of the gossips.

## Anonymity Against distributed adversaries

We consider an adversary whose goal is to deanonymize users by linking their
transactions to their IP addresses. This model is analysed in [Dandelion].
[PolderCast] already allows us to provide some reasonable guarantees against
this adversary model.

* Node do not share their links, they share a limited number of gossips based
  on what a node believe the recipient node might be interested in;
* While some links can be guessed (those of the Rings module for example), some
  are too arbitrary ([Vicinity] or [Cyclon]) to determined the original sender
  of a transaction;

# Man in the middle

We consider an adversary that could intercept the communication between two
nodes. Such adversary could:

* Escalate acquired knowledge to break the node privacy (e.g. user's public keys);
* Disrupt the communication between the two nodes;

Potentially we might use SSL/TLS with dynamic certificate generation. A node
would introduce itself to the network with its certificate. The certificate
is then associated to this node and would be propagated via gossiping to the
network.


# In relation to Ouroboros Genesis

Each participants in the protocol need:

* Key Evolving signature (KES) secret key
* Verifiable Random Function (VRF) secret key

Apart from the common block deserialization and hashing verification, each
block requires:

* 2 VRF verification
* 1 KES verification.

Considering the perfect network, it allow to calculate how many sequential hops, a block can hope to reach at a maximum bound.

[proto]: ../../../proto
[PolderCast]: https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01555561/document
[Vicinity]: https://www.cs.vu.nl/~spyros/papers/Thesis-Voulgaris.pdf
[Cyclon]: https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10922-005-4441-x
[Dandelion]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1701.04439
